README.md, before:

# foundry-container-registry

A graphical hub to the CrowdStrike container registry, built on Foundry.

## Developing

1. In `ui/pages`:

   1. Run `npm install` (only have to do this once)
   1. Run `npm run watch` to live rebuild on change (takes a few seconds)

1. In root, run `foundry apps run`

The pages will now be available in the Falcon console (after refresh) under the **Custom apps** menu.

## Function testing

Foundry functions don't have a "dev mode" so we test locally and then deploy:

1. Load a `FALCON_CLIENT_ID`, `FALCON_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `FALCON_CLOUD` into your environment
1. In `functions/syncimages`:

   1. `go run main.go`
   1.

   ```shell
   curl -X Post --location 'http://localhost:8081' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data '{
         "body": {},
         "method": "POST",
         "url": "/sync-images"
      }'
   ```

## Deploy and release

A _deployment_ is essentially a development build. That development build is promoted to production
(i.e. made installable) via a _release_. The versioning in this GitHub repo match Foundry
releases. Foundry supports semantic versioning for deployments, but we do not use that.

1. In `ui/pages`: `npm run build`
1. To deploy, in root: `foundry apps deploy`

   1. Select "Patch" (as a matter of convention, we _do not_ use semantic versioning with deployments)
   1. Add a brief change log, or if just preparing for a release, "preparing for vX.Y.Z"
   1. Preview the app and test

1. Create a GitHub release

   1. Determine the appropriate release version (major/minor/patch), keeping in mind that Foundry will generate a release version in the next step by incrementing the _previous Foundry release_ by 1 for either the major, minor, or patch part of the version
   1. Generate the changelog

1. To release, in root: `foundry apps release`

   1. Choose the appropriate major/minor/patch to match the versioning choice above
   1. For release notes, provide the link to the GitHub release

Commit message:

clarify deploy vs. release steps

README.md, after:

# foundry-container-registry

A graphical hub to the CrowdStrike container registry, built on Foundry.

## Developing

1. In `ui/pages`:

   1. Run `npm install` (only have to do this once)
   1. Run `npm run watch` to live rebuild on change (takes a few seconds)

1. In root, run `foundry apps run`

The pages will now be available in the Falcon console (after refresh) under the **Custom apps** menu.

## Function testing

Foundry functions don't have a "dev mode" so we test locally and then deploy:

1. Load a `FALCON_CLIENT_ID`, `FALCON_CLIENT_SECRET`, and `FALCON_CLOUD` into your environment
1. In `functions/syncimages`:

   1. `go run main.go`
   1.

   ```shell
   curl -X Post --location 'http://localhost:8081' \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data '{
         "body": {},
         "method": "POST",
         "url": "/sync-images"
      }'
   ```

## Deploy and release

A _deployment_ is essentially a development build. That development build is promoted to production
(i.e. made installable) via a _release_. The versioning in this GitHub repo match Foundry
releases. Foundry supports semantic versioning for deployments, but we do not use that.

**To deploy a build (either from `main` or a work branch):**

1. In `ui/pages`: `npm run build`
1. To deploy, in root: `foundry apps deploy`

   1. Select "Patch" (as a matter of convention, we _do not_ use semantic versioning with deployments)
   1. Add a brief change log, or if just preparing for a release, "preparing for vX.Y.Z"
   1. Preview the app and test

**To deploy a release (only from `main`):**

1. Merge any open PR's that are desired for this release, and follow the deployment steps above

1. Create a GitHub release from `main`

   1. Determine the appropriate release version (major/minor/patch), keeping in mind that Foundry will generate a release version in the next step by incrementing the _previous Foundry release_ by 1 for either the major, minor, or patch part of the version
   1. Generate the changelog

1. To release, in root: `foundry apps release`

   1. Choose the appropriate major/minor/patch to match the versioning choice above
   1. For release notes, provide the link to the GitHub release
